　　Arbitration Law of the People s Republic of China
　　(Adopted at the 8th Session of the Standing Committee of the 8thNational People s Congress and Promulgated on August 31, 1994)

　　Arbitration Law of the People s Republic of China
　　(Adopted at the 8th Session of the Standing Committee of the 8th
　　National People s Congress and Promulgated on August 31, 1994)
　　Chapter I General Provisions

　　Article 1
　　This Law is formulated in order to ensure that economic disputes shall
　　be impartially and promptly arbitrated, to protect the legitimate rights
　　and interests of the relevant parties and to guarantee the healthy
　　development of the socialist market economy.
　　Article 2
　　Disputes over contracts and disputes over property rights and
　　interests between citizens, legal persons and other organizations as equal
　　subjects of law may be submitted to arbitration.
　　Article 3
　　The following disputes shall not be submitted to arbitration:
　　1. disputes over marriage, adoption, guardianship,
　　child maintenance and inheritance; and
　　2. administrative disputes falling within the jurisdiction
　　of the relevant administrative organs according to
　　law.
　　Article 4
　　The parties adopting arbitration for dispute settlement shall reach an
　　arbitration agreement on a mutually voluntary basis. An arbitration
　　commission shall not accept an application for arbitration submitted by
　　one of the parties in the absence of an arbitration agreement.
　　Article 5
　　A people s court shall not accept an action initiated by one of the
　　parties if the parties have concluded an arbitration agreement, unless the
　　arbitration agreement is invalid.
　　Article 6
　　An arbitration commission shall be selected by the parties by
　　agreement.
　　The jurisdiction by level system and the district jurisdiction system
　　shall not apply in arbitration.
　　Article 7
　　Disputes shall be fairly and reasonably settled by arbitration on the
　　basis of facts and in accordance with the relevant provisions of law.
　　Article 8
　　Arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the law, independent
　　of any intervention by administrative organs, social organizations or
　　individuals.
　　Article 9
　　The single ruling system shall be applied in arbitration. The
　　arbitration commission shall not accept any application for arbitration,
　　nor shall a people s court accept any action submitted by the party in
　　respect of the same dispute after an arbitration award has already been
　　given in relation to that matter.
　　If the arbitration award is canceled or its enforcement has been
　　disallowed by a people s court in accordance with the law, the parties
　　may, in accordance with a new arbitration agreement between them in
　　respect of the dispute, re-apply for arbitration or initiate legal
　　proceedings with the people s court.
　　Chapter II Arbitration Commissions and Arbitration Association
　　Article 10
　　Arbitration commissions may be established in the municipalities
　　directly under the Central Government, in the municipalities where the
　　people s governments of provinces and autonomous regions are located or,
　　if necessary, in other cities divided into districts. Arbitration
　　commissions shall not be established at each level of the administrative
　　divisions.
　　The people s governments of the municipalities and cities specified in
　　the above paragraph shall organize the relevant departments and the
　　Chamber of Commerce for the formation of an arbitration commission.
　　The establishment of an arbitration commission shall be registered
　　with the judicial administrative department of the relevant province,
　　autonomous region or municipalities directly under the Central Government.
　　Article 11
　　An arbitration commission shall fulfil the following conditions:
　　1. it must have its own name, domicile and Articles of Association;
　　2. it must possess the necessary property;
　　3. it must have its own members; and
　　4. it must have arbitrators for appointment.
　　The articles of association of the an arbitration commission shall be
　　formulated in accordance with this Law.
　　Article 12
　　An arbitration commission shall comprise a chairman, two to four
　　vice-chairmen and seven to eleven members.
　　The chairman, vice-chairmen and members of an arbitration commission
　　must be persons specialized in law, economic and trade and persons who
　　have actual working experience. The number of specialists in law, economic
　　and trade shall not be less than two-thirds of the members of an
　　arbitration association.
　　Article 13
　　The arbitration commission shall appoint fair and honest person as its
　　arbitrators.
　　Arbitrators must fulfil one of the following conditions:
　　1. they have been engaged in arbitration work for at least eight
　　years;
　　2. they have worked as a lawyer for at least eight years;
　　3. they have been a judge for at least eight years;
　　4. they are engaged in legal research or legal teaching and in senior
　　positions; and
　　5. they have legal knowledge and are engaged in professional work
　　relating to economics and trade, and in senior positions or of the
　　equivalent professional level.
　　The arbitration commission shall establish a list of arbitrators
　　according to different professionals.
　　Article 14
　　Arbitration commissions are independent of administrative organs and
　　there are no subordinate relations with any administrative organs nor
　　between the different arbitration commissions.
　　Article 15
　　The China Arbitration Association is a social organization with the
　　status of a legal person. Arbitration commissions are members of the China
　　Arbitration Association. The Articles of Association of the China
　　Arbitration Association shall be formulated by the national general
　　meeting of the members.
　　The China Arbitration Association is an organization in charge of
　　self-regulation of the arbitration commissions. It shall conduct
　　supervision over the conduct (any breach of discipline) of the arbitration
　　commissions and their members and arbitrators in accordance with its
　　articles of association.
　　The China Arbitration Association shall formulate Arbitration Rules in
　　accordance with this Law and the Civil Procedure Law.
　　Chapter III Arbitration Agreement
　　Article 16
　　An arbitration agreement shall include the arbitration clauses
　　provided in the contract and any other written form of agreement concluded
　　before or after the disputes providing for submission to arbitration.
　　The following contents shall be included in an arbitration agreement:
　　1. the expression of the parties  wish to submit to arbitration;
　　2. the matters to be arbitrated; and
　　3. the Arbitration Commission selected by the parties.
　　Article 17
　　An arbitration agreement shall be invalid under any of the following
　　circumstances:
　　1. matters agreed upon for arbitration are beyond the scope of
　　arbitration prescribed by law;
　　2. an arbitration agreement concluded by persons without or with
　　limited capacity for civil acts; and
　　3. one party forces the other party to sign an arbitration agreement
　　by means of duress.
　　Article 18
　　If the arbitration matters or the arbitration commission are not
　　agreed upon by the parties in the arbitration agreement, or, if the
　　relevant provisions are not clear, the parties may supplement the
　　agreement. If the parties fail to agree upon the supplementary agreement,
　　the arbitration agreement shall be invalid.
　　Article 19
　　An arbitration agreement shall exist independently. Any changes to,
　　rescission, termination or invalidity of the contract shall not affect the
　　validity of the arbitration agreement.
　　An arbitration tribunal has the right to rule on the validity of a
　　contract.
　　Article 20
　　If the parties object to the validity of the arbitration agreement,
　　they may apply to the arbitration commission for a decision or to a
　　people s court for a ruling. If one of the parties submits to the
　　arbitration commission for a decision, but the other party applies to a
　　people s court for a ruling, the people s court shall give the ruling.
　　If the parties contest the validity of the arbitration agreement, the
　　objection shall be made before the start of the first hearing of the
　　arbitration tribunal.
　　Chapter IV Arbitration Procedure
　　Section 1: Application and Acceptance for Arbitration
　　Article 21
　　The parties applying for arbitration shall fulfil the following
　　conditions:
　　1. they must have an arbitration agreement;
　　2. they must have a specific claim with facts and argument on which
　　the claim is based; and
　　3. the arbitration must be within the jurisdiction of the arbitration
　　commission.
　　Article 22
　　The party applying for arbitration shall submit to an arbitration
　　commission the arbitration agreement, an application for arbitration and
　　copies thereof.
　　Article 23
　　An arbitration application shall state clearly the following:
　　1. the name, sex, age, occupation, work unit and address of the party,
　　the name address and legal representative of the legal person or other
　　organization and the name and position of its person-in charge;
　　2. the arbitration claim and the facts and argument on which the claim
　　is based; and
　　3. evidence and the source of evidence, the name and address of the
　　witness (es).
　　Article 24
　　Within 5 days from the date of receiving the arbitration application,
　　the arbitration commission shall notify the parties that it considers the
　　conditions for acceptance have been fulfilled, and that the application is
　　accepted by it. If the arbitration commission considers that the
　　conditions have not been fulfilled, it shall notify the parties in writing
　　of its rejection, stating its reasons.
　　Article 25
　　Upon acceptance of an arbitration application, the arbitration
　　commission shall, within the time limit provided by the Arbitration Rules,
　　serve a copy of the Arbitration Rules and the list of arbitrators on the
　　applicant, and serve a copy of the arbitration application, the
　　Arbitration Rules and the list of arbitrators on the respondent.
　　Upon receipt of a copy of the arbitration application, the respondent
　　shall, within the time limit prescribed by the Arbitration Rules, submit
　　its defence to the arbitration commission. Upon receipt of the defence,
　　the arbitration commission shall, within the time limit prescribed by the
　　Arbitration Rules, serve a copy of the reply on the applicant. The failure
　　of the respondent to submit a defence shall not affect the proceeding of
　　the arbitration procedures.
　　Article 26
　　Where the parties had agreed on an arbitration agreement, but one of
　　the parties initiates an action before a people s court without stating
　　the existence of the arbitration agreement, the people s court shall,
　　unless the arbitration agreement is invalid, reject the action if the
　　other party submits to the court the arbitration agreement before the
　　first hearing of the case. If the other party fails to object to the
　　hearing by the people s court before the first hearing, the arbitration
　　agreement shall be considered to have been waived by the party and the
　　people s court shall proceed with the hearing.
　　Article 27
　　The applicant may abandon or alter his arbitration claim. The
　　respondent may accept the arbitration claim or object to it. It has a
　　right to make a counterclaim.
　　Article 28
　　A party may apply for property preservation if, as the result of an
　　act of the other party or for some other reasons, it appears that an award
　　may be impossible or difficult to enforce.
　　If one of the parties applies for property preservation, the
　　arbitration commission shall submit to a people s court the application of
　　the party in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Civil
　　Procedure Law.
　　If a property preservation order is unfounded, the applicant shall
　　compensate the party against whom the order was made for any losses
　　sustained as a result of the implementation of the property preservation
　　order.
　　Article 29
　　The parties and their legal representatives may appoint lawyers or
　　engage agents to handle matters relating to the arbitration. In the event
　　that a lawyer or an agent is appointed to handle the arbitration matters,
　　a letter of authorization shall be submitted to the arbitration
　　commission.
　　Section 2: Composition of the Arbitration Tribunal
　　Article 30
　　An arbitration tribunal may comprise three arbitrators or one
　　arbitrator. If an arbitration tribunal comprises three arbitrators, a
　　presiding arbitrator shall be appointed.
　　Article 31
　　If the parties agree to form an arbitration tribunal comprising three
　　arbitrators, each party shall select or authorize the chairmen of the
　　arbitration commission to appoint one arbitrator. The third arbitrator
　　shall be selected jointly by the parties or be nominated by the chairman
　　of the arbitration commission in accordance with a joint mandate given by
　　the parties. The third arbitrator shall be the presiding arbitrator.
　　If the parties agree to have one arbitrator to form an arbitration
　　tribunal, the arbitrator shall be selected jointly by the parties or be
　　nominated by the chairman of the arbitration commission in accordance with
　　a joint mandate given by the parties.
　　Article 32
　　If the parties fail, within the time limit prescribed by the
　　Arbitration Rules, to select the form of the constitution of the
　　arbitration tribunal or fail to select the arbitrators, the arbitrators
　　shall be appointed by the chairman of the arbitration commission.
　　Article 33
　　After the arbitration tribunal is constituted, the arbitration
　　commission shall notify the parties in writing of the composition of the
　　arbitration tribunal.
　　Article 34
　　In any of the following circumstances, an arbitrator must withdraw
　　from the arbitration, and the parties shall have the right to apply for
　　his withdrawal if he:
　　1. is a party or a close relative of a party or of a party s
　　representative;
　　2. is related in the case;
　　3. has some other relationship with a party to the case or with a
　　party s agent which could possibly affect the impartiality of the
　　arbitration;
　　4. meets a party or his agent in private, accepts an invitation for
　　dinner by a party or his representative or accepts gifts presented by any
　　of them.
　　Article 35
　　When applying for the withdrawal of an arbitrator, the petitioning
　　party shall state his reasons and submit a withdrawal application before
　　the first hearing. A withdrawal application may also be submitted before
　　the conclusion of the last hearing if reasons for the withdrawal only
　　became known after the start of the first hearing.
　　Article 36
　　Whether an arbitrator is withdrawn or not shall be determined by the
　　chairman of the arbitration commission. If chairman is serving as an
　　arbitrator, the withdrawal or not shall be determined collectively by the
　　arbitration commission.
　　Article 37
　　If an arbitrator is unable to perform his duties as an arbitrator as a
　　result of the withdrawal or any other reasons, another arbitrator shall be
　　selected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
　　After a replaced arbitrator has been selected or appointed following
　　the withdrawal of an arbitrator, the parties may apply to resume the
　　arbitration procedure. The arbitration tribunal shall determine whether
　　the resumption of the procedure may be allowed. The arbitration tribunal
　　may determine on its own whether the arbitration procedure shall be
　　resumed.
　　Article 38
　　An arbitrator involved in one of the circumstances described in Item
　　4, Article 34, if it is serious, or those described in Item 6, Article
　　58, such arbitrator shall be legally liable in accordance with the law.
　　The arbitration commission shall remove his name from the list of
　　arbitrators.
　　Section 3: Hearing and Arbitral Awards
　　Article 39
　　An arbitration tribunal shall hold a tribunal session to hear an
　　arbitration case. If the parties agree not to hold a hearing, the
　　arbitration tribunal may render an award in accordance with the
　　arbitration application, the defence statement and other documents.
　　Article 40
　　An arbitration shall not be conducted in public. If the parties agree
　　to a public hearing, the arbitration may proceed in public, except those
　　concerning state secrets.
　　Article 41
　　The arbitration commission shall notify the two parties within the
　　time limit provided by the Arbitration Rules of the date of the hearing.
　　Either party may request to postpone the hearing with in the time limit
　　provided by the Arbitration Rules if there is a genuine reason. The
　　arbitration tribunal shall decide whether to postpone the hearing.
　　Article 42
　　If the applicant for arbitration who has been given a notice in
　　writing does not appear before the tribunal without good reasons, or
　　leaves the tribunal room during a hearing without the permission of the
　　arbitration tribunal, such applicant shall be deemed as having withdrawn
　　his application.
　　If the party against whom the application was made was served with a
　　notice in writing but does not appear before the tribunal without due
　　reasons or leaves the tribunal room during a hearing without the
　　permission of the arbitration tribunal, an award by default may be given.
　　Article 43
　　The parties shall produce evidence in support of their claims.
　　An arbitration tribunal may collect on its own evidence it considers
　　necessary.
　　Article 44
　　For specialized matters, an arbitration tribunal may submit for
　　appraisal to an appraisal organ agreed upon by the parties or to the
　　appraisal organ appointed by the arbitration tribunal if it deems such
　　appraisal to be necessary.
　　According to the claim of the parties or the request of the
　　arbitration tribunal, the appraisal organ shall appoint an appraiser to
　　participate in the hearing. Upon the permission of the arbitration
　　tribunal, the parties may question the appraiser.
　　Article 45
　　Any evidence shall be produced at the start of the hearing. The
　　parties may challenge the validity of such evidence.
　　Article 46
　　In the event that the evidence might be destroyed or if it would be
　　difficult to obtain the evidence later on, the parties may apply for the
　　evidence to be preserved. If the parties apply for such preservation, the
　　arbitration commission shall submit the application to the basic-level
　　people s court of the place where the evidence is located.
　　Article 47
　　The parties have the right to argue during an arbitration procedure.
　　At the end of the debate, the presiding arbitrator or the sole arbitrator
　　shall ask for the final opinion of the parties.
　　Article 48
　　An arbitration tribunal shall make a written record of the hearing. If
　　the parties or other participants to the arbitration consider that the
　　record has omitted a part of their statement or is incorrect in some other
　　respect, they shall have the right to request correction thereof. If no
　　correction is made, the request for correction shall be noted in the
　　written record.
　　The arbitrators, recorder, parties and other participants to the
　　arbitration shall sign or affix their seals to the record.
　　Article 49
　　After the submission of an arbitration application, the parties may
　　settle the dispute among themselves through conciliation. If a
　　conciliation agreement has been reached, the parties may apply to the
　　arbitration tribunal for an award based on the conciliation agreement.
　　Then may also withdraw the arbitration application.
　　Article 50
　　If the parties fall back on their words after the conclusion of a
　　conciliation agreement and the withdrawal of the arbitration application,
　　application may be made for arbitration in accordance with the arbitration
　　agreement.
　　Article 51
　　Before giving an award, an arbitration tribunal may first attempt to
　　conciliate. If the parties apply for conciliation voluntarily, the
　　arbitration tribunal shall conciliate. If conciliation is unsuccessful, an
　　award shall be made promptly.
　　When a settlement agreement is reached by conciliation, the
　　arbitration tribunal shall prepare the conciliation statement or the award
　　on the basis of the results of the settlement agreement. A conciliation
　　statement shall have the same legal force as that of an award.
　　Article 52
　　A conciliation statement shall set forth the arbitration claims and
　　the results of the agreement between the parties. The conciliation
　　statement shall be signed by the arbitrators, sealed by the arbitration
　　commission, and served on both parties.
　　A conciliation statement shall have legal effect once signed and
　　accepted by the parties.
　　If the parties fall back on their words before the conciliation
　　statement is singed and accepted by them, an award shall be made by the
　　arbitration tribunal promptly.
　　Article 53
　　An award shall be based on the opinion of the majority arbitrators.
　　The opinion of the minority arbitrators shall be recorded in writing. If
　　an opinion of the minority arbitrators shall be recorded in writing. If an
　　opinion of the majority arbitrators can not be constituted at the
　　tribunal, the award shall be given according to the opinion of the
　　presiding arbitrator.
　　Article 54
　　The arbitration claims, the matters in dispute, the grounds upon which
　　an award is given, the results of the judgement, the responsibility for
　　the arbitration fees and the date of the award shall be set forth in the
　　award. If the parties agree not to include in the award the matters in
　　dispute and the grounds on which the award is based, such matters may not
　　be stated in the award. The award shall be signed by the arbitrators and
　　sealed by the arbitration commission. The arbitrator who disagrees with
　　the award may select to sign or not to sign it.
　　Article 55
　　During the course of arbitration by an arbitration tribunal, where a
　　part of facts has been made clear, a partial award may first be given in
　　relation to that part.
　　Article 56
　　The parties may, within 30 days of the receipt of the award, request
　　the arbitration tribunal to correct any typographical errors, calculation
　　errors or matters which had been awarded but omitted in the award.
　　Article 57
　　An award shall be legally effective on the date it is given.
　　Chapter V Application for Cancellation of an Award
　　Article 58
　　The parties may apply to the intermediate people s court at the place
　　where the arbitration commission is located for cancellation of an award
　　if they provide evidence proving that the award involves one of the
　　following circumstances:
　　1. there is no arbitration agreement between the parties;
　　2. the matters of the award are beyond the extent of the arbitration
　　agreement or not within the jurisdiction of the arbitration commission;
　　3. the composition of the arbitration tribunal or the arbitration
　　procedure is in contrary to the legal procedure;
　　4. the evidence on which the award is based is falsified;
　　5. the other party has concealed evidence which is sufficient to
　　affect the impartiality of the award; and
　　6. the arbitrator(s) has (have) demanded or accepted bribes, committed
　　graft or perverted the law in making the arbitral award.
　　The peoples  court shall rule to cancel the award if the existence of
　　one of the circumstances prescribed in the preceding clause is confirmed
　　by its collegiate bench.
　　The people s court shall rule to cancel the award if it holds that the
　　award is contrary to the social and public interests.
　　Article 59
　　If a party applies for cancellation of an award, an application shall
　　be submitted within 6 months after receipt of the award.
　　Article 60
　　The people s court shall, within 2 months after receipt of the
　　application for cancellation of an award, render its decision for
　　cancellation of the award or for rejection of the application.
　　Article 61
　　If the people s court holds that the case may be re-arbitrated by the
　　arbitration tribunal after receipt of the application for cancellation of
　　an award, the court shall inform the arbitration tribunal of
　　re-arbitrating the case within a certain period of time and rule to
　　suspend the cancellation procedure. If the arbitration tribunal refuses to
　　re-arbitrate, the people s court shall rule to resume the cancellation
　　procedure.
　　Chapter VI Enforcement
　　Article 62
　　The parties shall execute an arbitration award. If one party fails to
　　execute the award, the other party may apply to a people s court for
　　enforcement in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Civil
　　Procedure Law, and the court shall enforce the award.
　　Article 63
　　A people s court shall, after examination and verification by its
　　collegiate bench, rule not to enforce an award if the party against whom
　　an application for enforcement is made provides evidence proving that the
　　award involves one of the circumstances prescribed in Clause 2, Article
　　217 of the Civil procedure Law.
　　Article 64
　　If one party applies for enforcement of an award while the other party
　　applies for cancellation of the award, the people s court receiving such
　　application shall rule to suspend enforcement of the award.
　　If a people s court rules to cancel an award, it shall rule to
　　terminate enforcement. If the people s court overrules the application for
　　cancellation of an award, it shall rule to resume enforcement.
　　Chapter VII Special provisions on Foreign-Related Arbitration
　　Article 65
　　The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all arbitration of
　　disputes arising from foreign economic, trade, transportation or maritime
　　matters. In the absence of provisions in this Chapter, other relevant
　　provisions of this Law shall apply.
　　Article 66
　　A foreign arbitration commission may be organized and established by
　　the China International Chamber of Commerce.
　　A foreign arbitration commission shall comprise one chairman, several
　　vice-chairmen and several committee members.
　　The chairman, vice-chairmen and committee members may be appointed by
　　the China International Chamber of Commerce.
　　Article 67
　　A foreign arbitration commission may appoint foreigners with
　　professional knowledge in such fields as law, economic and trade, science
　　and technology as arbitrators.
　　Article 68
　　If the parties to a foreign-related arbitration apply for evidence
　　preservation, the foreign arbitration commission shall submit their
　　applications to the intermediate people s court in the place where the
　　evidence is located.
　　Article 69
　　The arbitration tribunal of a foreign arbitration commission may
　　record the details of the hearing in writing or record the essentials of
　　the hearing in writing. The written record of the essentials shall be
　　signed or sealed by the parties and other participants in the arbitration.
　　Article 70
　　A people s court shall, after examination and verification by its
　　collegiate bench, rule to cancel an award if a party to the case provides
　　evidence proving that the arbitration award involves one of the
　　circumstances prescribed in Clause 1, Article 260 of the Civil Procedure
　　Law.
　　Article 71
　　A people s court shall, after examination and verification by its
　　collegiate bench, rule not to enforce an award-if the party against whom
　　an application is made provides evidence proving that the arbitration
　　award involves one of the circumstances prescribed in Clause 1, Article
　　260 of the Civil Procedure Law.
　　Article 72
　　Where the party subject to enforcement or its property is not within
　　the territory of the People s Republic of China, a party applying for the
　　enforcement of a legally effective arbitration award shall apply directly
　　to the foreign court having jurisdiction for recognition and enforcement
　　of the award.
　　Article 73
　　Foreign arbitration rules may be formulated by the China International
　　Chamber of Commerce in accordance with this Law and the relevant
　　provisions of the Civil Procedure Law.
　　Chapter VIII Supplementary Provisions
　　Article 74
　　If the law has stipulated a time limitation of arbitration, such
　　provisions of the law shall apply. If the law has not stipulated a time
　　limitation of arbitration, the provisions on the limitation of actions
　　shall apply.
　　Article 75
　　The arbitration Commission may formulate provisional arbitration rules
　　in accordance with this Law and the relevant provisions of the Civil
　　Procedure Law before the formulation of the arbitration rules by the China
　　Arbitration Association.
　　Article 76
　　The parties shall pay arbitration fees in accordance with the relevant
　　provisions.
　　The methods for the collection of arbitration fees shall be submitted
　　to the commodity prices administration department for approval.
　　Article 77
　　Arbitration of labor disputes and disputes over contracts for
　　undertaking agricultural projects within agricultural collective economic
　　organizations shall be separately stipulated.
　　Article 78
　　In the event of conflict between the provisions on arbitration
　　formulated before the coming into effect of this Law and the provisions of
　　this Law, the provisions of this Law shall prevail.
　　Article 79
　　Arbitration organs established before the coming into effect of this
　　Law in the municipalities directly under the Central Government, in the
　　municipalities where the people s governments of the provinces or
　　autonomous regions and in other cities divided into districts must be
　　re-organized in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Law. The
　　arbitration organs which are not re-organized shall be terminated at the
　　expiration of one year after the date of effectiveness of this Law.
　　All other arbitration organs established before the implementation of
　　this Law and not conforming to the provisions of this Law shall be
　　terminated on the date of effectiveness of this Law.
　　Article 80
　　This Law shall be effective as of September 1, 1995.

　